---
layout: post
title: Noze.io 0.2.5
tags: nozeio linux swift server side
---

Last week we [announced](/announce/) our first public **Noze.io** v0.2.x branch,
codename “Less than Prefect”, accompanied by the 0.2.3 release.
This week we pushed a 0.2.5 release.

### Changes in 0.2.5

- Swift 3 port updates to 2016-06-06-a dev snapshot
- `streams` module
  - the write stream was not properly retaining the `core`, leading to early
    exits of trivial programs e.g. ones which just contain
    `console.log("hello")`
  - `AsyncIteratorSource` and `ASyncSinkTarget` are now classes, not structs
    due to their use of closures and associated limitations.
  - crash fix in `writeNextBlock`
- `fs` module:
  - `readFileSync` functions for bytes and strings (*do not use!* ;-)
  - added simple `path.dirname` and `path.basename` funcs
  - `readFile` callbacks now conform to the `(err, result)` style. Was
    `(result, err)` before.
- `http_parser` module
  - we analyzed the performance as part of a
    [Swift-vs-C shootout](https://github.com/helje5/http-c-vs-swift) and
    incorporated some major performance enhancements
  - the API is now a little closer to the `C` original. The parser itself is now
    a `struct http_parser` and the callbacks are provided separately in a
    `struct http_parser_settings`
  - `HTTPStatus` moved to the `http` module
- `mustache` module
  - better Dictionary KVC
  - reuse more code between Swift 2 and 3 versions
  - added support for partials
  - added support for lambdas, including nested rendering contexts
  - added `asMustacheString` to convert an AST back to a template String
  - HTML escaping! ;-) Values are now escaped properly.
- `json` module
  - added `jsonfile` submodule. This carries convenience functions like
   `jsonfile.readFile` and `jsonfile.writeFile`.
    - due to the `json` module now depends on `fs`, but I suppose there are few
      Noze.io apps which do not link `fs`.
  - added a simple `JSON.stringify` (does not yet support indent and replacer)
  - added `writeJSON(object:)` and `writeJSON(string:)` methods to all byte
    streams
- `express` module
  - move some JSON code to `json` module
  - make use of partials support in the enhanced `mustache` module, a demo is
    available as part of the
    [express-simple](https://github.com/NozeIO/Noze.io/blob/master/Samples/express-simple/views/index.html)
    example

### Questions we received

> "Is it possible to run Noze.io on a different queue but the main
         queue?"

Yes. This is described a little in
[Noze.io for people who don't know Node](/noze4nonnode/).
Essentially you just set `core.Q` to the queue you want. You may also
want to `core.disableAtExitHandler()` and set the `core.module.exitFunction`.
The 
[tests](https://github.com/NozeIO/Noze.io/blob/master/Tests/streams/NozeIOTestCase.swift)
make use of this capability.

> "How do I properly import Noze.io into an existing Xcode project?"

There are various options to do this. If you have Swift 3, you can use the
`Swift Package Manager` to import the Noze.io Package and `swift build -X`
to generate an Xcode project for your package.

We also added an Xcode step-by-step example of creating a new Cocoa project
which links to Noze.io:
[Add Noze.io to Cocoa project](/docs/create-own-httpd-xcode-s2).

> "Noze.io seems too big to me (just need `streams` and `net`).
>  I hope in the future you’ll be able to
>  split the projects into smaller parts"

Noze.io is already split into really tiny parts (19! individual
dylibs).
Yes, it is a big Xcode project and SPM package, but the the stuff it produces
is a set of really small modules. You don't need `http`, `express` or
`connect`? Don't link to those dylibs, they won't add bulk to your program.
In contrary, there are considerations whether the amount of dylibs
should be reduced. To avoid dynamic linking overhead for short-running tools
and to help the Swift optimizer.

Having said that: Once the 
[Swift Package Manager](https://github.com/apple/swift-package-manager) 
is released (supposed to be part of the Swift 3 release),
it may make sense to break out a few packages (e.g. Connect/Express).
We are interested in feedback about that (is this really that useful?).

> "I have to admit- you guys made really REALLY awesome work"

Well, Noze.io is already pretty neat. But honestly, there are still a lot of
open ends too. But hey, thanks!

### Happy WWDC 2016!

We wish you a successful WWDC 2016.
Seems unlikely that Swift 3 is going to be released next week, but we'll see :-)

*hh*
