---
layout: post
title: Noze.io 0.3.1 `http_parser_settings`
tags: nozeio redis linux swift server side
---

Noze.io 0.3.1 is a minor release which just adds two things:
a) compatibility with 
   [Swift 3 Preview 4](https://swift.org/download/#previews) 
   on both macOS & tuxOS
and
b) use of the new protocol based `http_parser` port.

### Swift 3 Preview 4

Swift 3 Preview 4 changes quite a few things. As usual we try to alias most of
the differences in the `core` module. For example you can use `Error` or
`ExpressibleByIntegerLiteral` in Swift 2 
(instead of the Swift 2 native `ErrorType` / `ArrayLiteralConvertible`).

Due to global renames in Preview 4 (e.g. `ErrorProtocol` to `Error`) a lot of
files are affected in Noze.io, but be afraid not: most are just naming changes.

### Protocol based `http_parser`

The other 'feature' in 0.3.1 is the protocol based `http_parser`.
The previous version of the Noze.io Node/Nginx Swift parser-port used closures 
to report parsing events, like so:

    parser.onHeadersComplete { parser in
      print("did parse HTTP request head: \(parser.method)")
    }

While this is kinda nice, (escaping) closures are actually relatively slow to 
capture and call. This doesn't matter so much for regular application code, but
it does matter a lot for the performance of such a low level component.

To fix this, `http_parser_settings` is now a protocol.
(Note that the old, closure-style, way of using the parser is still available
using the `http_parser_settings_cb` struct, see the tests for an example)

To use the parser with a protocol just implement it, e.g.:

    class MyParsingObject: http_parser_settings {
      func onHeadersComplete(parser p: http_parser ) -> Int {
        print("did parse HTTP request head: \(p.method)")
      }
    }

As it turns out, this way of implementing the callbacks is actually much more
in line in what the original `http_parser` is doing (its `http_parser_settings`
struct is pretty much the same like a protocol/vtable).

The `IncomingMessageParser` in the `http` module has been changed to work as a
protocol based parser.

### Changes in 0.3.1 (from 0.3.0)

- global changes
  - compat with Swift 3 Preview 4 on tuxOS & macOS
    - `ErrorProtocol` is now `Error` (2.x alias provided in `core`)
    - `UnsafePointer` changes
    - `xyzLiteralConvertible` is now `ExpressibleByXYZLiteral`
       (2.x alias provided in `core`)
    - enum cases must be accessed via `.`
    - operator funcs are static
    - a few more Objective-GCD changes
    - new `POSIXErrorCode` vs `POSIXError`
- `http_parser` module
  - switched from closure based `http_parser` to a protocol based `http_parser`
    (faster, more consistent with original)
- `http` module
  - use protocol based `http_parser`
- tests
  - renamed to match what Swift 3 Preview 6 is expecting (still works with 
    older versions)

### Swift 3 Preview 6

> What?! You release a Swift 3 Preview 4 version? Don't you know that 
> Swift 3 Preview 6 is out for quite a while!!

Yes, yes. There are two issues with Swift 3 Preview 6:

1. We can't get 
   [libdispatch](https://github.com/apple/swift-corelibs-libdispatch) 
   to build with Swift 3 Preview 6 on Ubuntu Trusty.
   In fact, there isn't even a preview6 branch of that.
2. Preview 6 has pretty *massive* changes which can't just be `typealias`'ed
   away.
   
**Help wanted**: If you got a version of `libdispatch` working on Trusty, please 
[let us know](/about/#contact).

It feels a little like everyone is racing towards the Swift 3 release,
including the `libdispatch` Swift people,
which is a good thing.
And as part of that race "preview stability" (...) seems to have decreased.

The other issue are two changes in the Swift language in Preview 6:

1. closures are now `@nonescaping` by default
2. `public` classes cannot be subclassed anymore by other modules,
   `open` needs to be used for such

Change 1 is an issue in Noze.io because all the event handlers are naturally
`@escaping`. Which means all of them need to be modified with the `@escaping`
marker - but only for Swift 3 - as Swift 2 doesn't know that.
One way around that is using `typealias`es for the closure types (and 
Swift-version those), but that is pretty ugly.

Change 2 is even worse. A `public` class of a module cannot be subclassed
anymore. Instead it needs to be marked `open`. Tiny change, big consequence:
the whole class declaration needs to be copied.
Code could be moved to extensions, but again this is ugly.

Anywayz, there is a
[Swift 3 Preview 6 branch](https://github.com/NozeIO/Noze.io/tree/feature/swift3p6)
for the port to the new language version.
As of today: work-in-progress.

*Our recommendation* is still the same: Stay with Swift 2.2/2.3 until Swift 3 -
particularily Swift 3 `libdispatch` on Linux - is sufficiently stable.

### Swift 3 Release Plan

Looks like we are nearing a Swift 3 final, but it's still the same old plan:

- as long as Swift 3 is not released, Swift 2.x is the recommended version
  and we build with Swift 2 *and* Swift 3-preview.
- once Swift 3 is released, we remove Swift 2 support and consolidate the
  codebase

There is one caveat: Even when Swift 3 is released, Xcode 8 is not supposed to
support [Swift Package Manager](https://swift.org/package-manager/).
Since we want to make it easy for the audience, this means that we are going
to stick to the "single package with multiple modules" setup
(aka *Rechargables Included*).

That way one only needs to pull a single Noze.io package from GitHub to get
going.
Note that though that will fetch the full sources, we still build small and
focused modules you can selectively link to.
You are *not* required to carry all the [cows](http://noze.io/cows/) in your
binary!

### Getting the stuff

Well, as usual, head over to
[GitHub](https://github.com/NozeIO/Noze.io/releases/tag/0.3.0)
and checkout the `master` branch or fetch the `0.3.1` tag.

### Help Wanted

#### libdispatch on Trusty

If you got a version of `libdispatch` working on Trusty, please 
[let us know](/about/#contact).

#### Incremental MD5 hasher

A thing we need is an incremental `MD5` hasher. Yes we heard about
[CryptoSwift](https://github.com/krzyzanowskim/CryptoSwift)
which looks pretty good.
But it seems to lack an incremental `MD5` hasher but requires the full input 
(and we wanna stream!).
If you know another (pure Swift) `MD5` hasher, please
[let us know](/about/#contact).

hh
